README.md, before:

<img src="./screenshot.png">


Table of Contents
=================

* [What is it?](#what-is-it)
     * [Installation](#installation)
     * [Usage](#usage)
     * [Plugins](#plugins)
     * [Customize](#customize)
        * [Theme](#theme)
        * [TabStyle](#tabstyle)
        * [HideRules](#hiderules)
        * [GroupRules](#grouprules)
        * [FixedWidth](#fixedwidth)

# What is it?

Emacs package to provide out-of-the-box configuration to use tabs.

### Installation

1. Clone this repository

```
git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/manateelazycat/awesome-tab.git
```

2. Move awesome-tab.el to your load-path.

    The load-path is usually `~/elisp/`.

    It's set in your `~/.emacs` or `~/.emacs.d/init.el` like this:

```Elisp
(add-to-list 'load-path (expand-file-name "~/elisp"))

(require 'awesome-tab)

(awesome-tab-mode t)
```

2. If you are using [Use-packge](https://github.com/jwiegley/use-package), the configuration will look like this

```ELisp
(use-package awesome-tab
  :load-path "path/to/your/awesome-tab.el"
  :config
  (awesome-tab-mode t)
)
```

3. Reload your emacs configuration using `M-x eval-buffer` or restarting emacs


### Usage

| Command                                         | Description                                                                           |
| :--------                                       | :----                                                                                 |
| awesome-tab-switch-group                        | Switch awesome-tab group by ido fuzz match                                            |
| awesome-tab-select-beg-tab                      | Select first tab of current group                                                     |
| awesome-tab-select-end-tab                      | Select last tab of current group                                                      |
| awesome-tab-forward-tab-other-window            | Select next tab in other window                                                       |
| awesome-tab-backward-tab-other-window           | Select previous tab in other window                                                   |
| awesome-tab-backward-tab                        | Select the previous available tab                                                     |
| awesome-tab-forward-tab                         | Select the next available tab                                                         |
| awesome-tab-backward-group                      | Go to selected tab in the previous available group                                    |
| awesome-tab-forward-group                       | Go to selected tab in the next available group                                        |
| awesome-tab-backward                            | Select the previous available tab, depend on setting of ```awesome-tab-cycle-scope``` |
| awesome-tab-forward                             | Select the next available tab, depend on setting of ```awesome-tab-cycle-scope```     |
| awesome-tab-kill-other-buffers-in-current-group | Kill other buffers of current group                                                   |
| awesome-tab-kill-all-buffers-in-current-group   | Kill all buffers of current group                                                     |
| awesome-tab-kill-match-buffers-in-current-group | Kill buffers match extension of current group                                         |
| awesome-tab-keep-match-buffers-in-current-group | Keep buffers match extension of current group                                         |
| awesome-tab-move-current-tab-to-left            | Move current tab to left                                                              |
| awesome-tab-move-current-tab-to-right           | Move current tab to right                                                             |


### Plugins
If you're helm fans, you need add below code in your helm config,

Then add ```helm-source-awesome-tab-group``` in ```helm-source-list```

```Elisp
(awesome-tab-build-helm-source)
```

Ivy fans can use ```awesome-tab-build-ivy-source```

### Customize

#### Theme

| Option                  | Description                |
| :--------               | :----                      |
| awesome-tab-background-color | Background color of awesome-tab |
| awesome-tab-selected     | Active tab color           |
| awesome-tab-unselected   | Inactive tab color         |

#### TabStyle
Default tab style is "wave", you can customize option ```awesome-tab-style``` follow your preferences, below are the different tab style screenshots:

##### alternate
<img src="./theme/alternate.png">

##### bar
<img src="./theme/bar.png">

##### box
<img src="./theme/box.png">

##### chamfer
<img src="./theme/chamfer.png">

##### rounded
<img src="./theme/rounded.png">

##### slant
<img src="./theme/slant.png">

##### wave
<img src="./theme/wave.png">

##### zigzag
<img src="./theme/zigzag.png">


##### HideRules
Awesome tab hide some tabs with regular expression that controller by function ```awesome-tab-hide-tab-function```

Default hide function is ```awesome-hide-tab```

```Elisp
(defun awesome-tab-hide-tab (x)
  (let ((name (format "%s" x)))
    (or
     (string-prefix-p "*epc" name)
     (string-prefix-p "*helm" name)
     (string-prefix-p "*Compile-Log*" name)
     (string-prefix-p "*lsp" name)
     (and (string-prefix-p "magit" name)
               (not (file-name-extension name)))
     )))
```

Tab will hide if ```awesome-tab-hide-tab-function``` return t, you can write your own code to customize hide rules.

##### GroupRules
Awesome tab use ```awesome-tab-buffer-groups-function``` to control tab group.
Default group function is ```awesome-tab-buffer-groups```

```Elisp
(defun awesome-tab-buffer-groups ()
  "`awesome-tab-buffer-groups' control buffers' group rules.

Group awesome-tab with mode if buffer is derived from `eshell-mode' `emacs-lisp-mode' `dired-mode' `org-mode' `magit-mode'.
All buffer name start with * will group to \"Emacs\".
Other buffer group by `awesome-tab-get-group-name' with project name."
  (list
   (cond
    ((or (string-equal "*" (substring (buffer-name) 0 1))
         (memq major-mode '(magit-process-mode
                            magit-status-mode
                            magit-diff-mode
                            magit-log-mode
                            magit-file-mode
                            magit-blob-mode
                            magit-blame-mode
                            )))
     "Emacs")
    ((derived-mode-p 'eshell-mode)
     "EShell")
    ((derived-mode-p 'emacs-lisp-mode)
     "Elisp")
    ((derived-mode-p 'dired-mode)
     "Dired")
    ((memq major-mode '(org-mode org-agenda-mode diary-mode))
     "OrgMode")
    (t
     (awesome-tab-get-group-name (current-buffer))))))
```

This function is very simple switch logic, you can write your own code to group tabs.

##### OrderRules
When switch tabs, if the two tabs are not adjacent before and after the switching action,
AwesomeTab will aggregate the two tabs by ```awesome-tab-adjust-buffer-order-function``` for the next quick switch.

Default functions is ```awesome-tab-adjust-buffer-order``` , you can write your own rule.

```Elisp
(defun awesome-tab-adjust-buffer-order ()
  "Put the two buffers switched to the adjacent position after current buffer changed."
  ;; Just continue when buffer changed.
  (when (and (not (eq (current-buffer) awesome-tab-last-focus-buffer))
             (not (minibufferp)))
    (let* ((current (current-buffer))
           (previous awesome-tab-last-focus-buffer)
           (current-group (first (funcall awesome-tab-buffer-groups-function))))
      ;; Record last focus buffer.
      (setq awesome-tab-last-focus-buffer current)

      ;; Just continue if two buffers are in same group.
      (when (eq current-group awesome-tab-last-focus-buffer-group)
        (let* ((bufset (awesome-tab-get-tabset current-group))
               (current-group-tabs (awesome-tab-tabs bufset))
               (current-group-buffers (mapcar 'car current-group-tabs))
               (current-buffer-index (cl-position current current-group-buffers))
               (previous-buffer-index (cl-position previous current-group-buffers)))

          ;; If the two tabs are not adjacent, swap the positions of the two tabs.
          (when (and current-buffer-index
                     previous-buffer-index
                     (> (abs (- current-buffer-index previous-buffer-index)) 1))
            (let* ((copy-group-tabs (copy-list current-group-tabs))
                   (previous-tab (nth previous-buffer-index copy-group-tabs))
                   (current-tab (nth current-buffer-index copy-group-tabs))
                   (base-group-tabs (awesome-tab-remove-nth-element previous-buffer-index copy-group-tabs))
                   (new-group-tabs
                    (if (> current-buffer-index previous-buffer-index)
                        (awesome-tab-insert-before base-group-tabs current-tab previous-tab)
                      (awesome-tab-insert-after base-group-tabs current-tab previous-tab))))
              (set bufset new-group-tabs)
              (awesome-tab-set-template bufset nil)
              (awesome-tab-display-update)
              ))))

      ;; Update the group name of the last access tab.
      (setq awesome-tab-last-focus-buffer-group current-group)
      )))
```

##### FixedWidth

If you'd like all the tab labels using the same length, such as 14, use:

```Elisp
(setq awesome-tab-label-fixed-length 14)
```

Commit message:

Add new command `awesome-tab-select-visible-tab'.

README.md, after:

<img src="./screenshot.png">


Table of Contents
=================

* [What is it?](#what-is-it)
     * [Installation](#installation)
     * [Usage](#usage)
     * [Plugins](#plugins)
     * [Customize](#customize)
        * [Theme](#theme)
        * [TabStyle](#tabstyle)
        * [HideRules](#hiderules)
        * [GroupRules](#grouprules)
        * [FixedWidth](#fixedwidth)

# What is it?

Emacs package to provide out-of-the-box configuration to use tabs.

### Installation

1. Clone this repository

```
git clone --depth=1 https://github.com/manateelazycat/awesome-tab.git
```

2. Move awesome-tab.el to your load-path.

    The load-path is usually `~/elisp/`.

    It's set in your `~/.emacs` or `~/.emacs.d/init.el` like this:

```Elisp
(add-to-list 'load-path (expand-file-name "~/elisp"))

(require 'awesome-tab)

(awesome-tab-mode t)
```

2. If you are using [Use-packge](https://github.com/jwiegley/use-package), the configuration will look like this

```ELisp
(use-package awesome-tab
  :load-path "path/to/your/awesome-tab.el"
  :config
  (awesome-tab-mode t)
)
```

3. Reload your emacs configuration using `M-x eval-buffer` or restarting emacs


### Usage

| Command                                         | Description                                                                           |
| :--------                                       | :----                                                                                 |
| awesome-tab-switch-group                        | Switch awesome-tab group by ido fuzz match                                            |
| awesome-tab-select-beg-tab                      | Select first tab of current group                                                     |
| awesome-tab-select-end-tab                      | Select last tab of current group                                                      |
| awesome-tab-forward-tab-other-window            | Select next tab in other window                                                       |
| awesome-tab-backward-tab-other-window           | Select previous tab in other window                                                   |
| awesome-tab-backward-tab                        | Select the previous available tab                                                     |
| awesome-tab-forward-tab                         | Select the next available tab                                                         |
| awesome-tab-backward-group                      | Go to selected tab in the previous available group                                    |
| awesome-tab-forward-group                       | Go to selected tab in the next available group                                        |
| awesome-tab-backward                            | Select the previous available tab, depend on setting of ```awesome-tab-cycle-scope``` |
| awesome-tab-forward                             | Select the next available tab, depend on setting of ```awesome-tab-cycle-scope```     |
| awesome-tab-kill-other-buffers-in-current-group | Kill other buffers of current group                                                   |
| awesome-tab-kill-all-buffers-in-current-group   | Kill all buffers of current group                                                     |
| awesome-tab-kill-match-buffers-in-current-group | Kill buffers match extension of current group                                         |
| awesome-tab-keep-match-buffers-in-current-group | Keep buffers match extension of current group                                         |
| awesome-tab-move-current-tab-to-left            | Move current tab to left                                                              |
| awesome-tab-move-current-tab-to-right           | Move current tab to right                                                             |
| awesome-tab-select-visible-tab                  | Select visible tab with given index                                                   |

#### Switch tab with given index

You can bind the number keys to the command ```awesome-tab-select-visible-tab```, such as s-1, s-2, s-3 ... etc.

This function automatically recognizes the number at the end of the keystroke
and switches to the tab of the corresponding index.

Note that this function switches to the visible range,
not the actual logical index position of the current group.

### Plugins
If you're helm fans, you need add below code in your helm config,

Then add ```helm-source-awesome-tab-group``` in ```helm-source-list```

```Elisp
(awesome-tab-build-helm-source)
```

Ivy fans can use ```awesome-tab-build-ivy-source```

### Customize

#### Theme

| Option                  | Description                |
| :--------               | :----                      |
| awesome-tab-background-color | Background color of awesome-tab |
| awesome-tab-selected     | Active tab color           |
| awesome-tab-unselected   | Inactive tab color         |

#### TabStyle
Default tab style is "wave", you can customize option ```awesome-tab-style``` follow your preferences, below are the different tab style screenshots:

##### alternate
<img src="./theme/alternate.png">

##### bar
<img src="./theme/bar.png">

##### box
<img src="./theme/box.png">

##### chamfer
<img src="./theme/chamfer.png">

##### rounded
<img src="./theme/rounded.png">

##### slant
<img src="./theme/slant.png">

##### wave
<img src="./theme/wave.png">

##### zigzag
<img src="./theme/zigzag.png">


##### HideRules
Awesome tab hide some tabs with regular expression that controller by function ```awesome-tab-hide-tab-function```

Default hide function is ```awesome-hide-tab```

```Elisp
(defun awesome-tab-hide-tab (x)
  (let ((name (format "%s" x)))
    (or
     (string-prefix-p "*epc" name)
     (string-prefix-p "*helm" name)
     (string-prefix-p "*Compile-Log*" name)
     (string-prefix-p "*lsp" name)
     (and (string-prefix-p "magit" name)
               (not (file-name-extension name)))
     )))
```

Tab will hide if ```awesome-tab-hide-tab-function``` return t, you can write your own code to customize hide rules.

##### GroupRules
Awesome tab use ```awesome-tab-buffer-groups-function``` to control tab group.
Default group function is ```awesome-tab-buffer-groups```

```Elisp
(defun awesome-tab-buffer-groups ()
  "`awesome-tab-buffer-groups' control buffers' group rules.

Group awesome-tab with mode if buffer is derived from `eshell-mode' `emacs-lisp-mode' `dired-mode' `org-mode' `magit-mode'.
All buffer name start with * will group to \"Emacs\".
Other buffer group by `awesome-tab-get-group-name' with project name."
  (list
   (cond
    ((or (string-equal "*" (substring (buffer-name) 0 1))
         (memq major-mode '(magit-process-mode
                            magit-status-mode
                            magit-diff-mode
                            magit-log-mode
                            magit-file-mode
                            magit-blob-mode
                            magit-blame-mode
                            )))
     "Emacs")
    ((derived-mode-p 'eshell-mode)
     "EShell")
    ((derived-mode-p 'emacs-lisp-mode)
     "Elisp")
    ((derived-mode-p 'dired-mode)
     "Dired")
    ((memq major-mode '(org-mode org-agenda-mode diary-mode))
     "OrgMode")
    (t
     (awesome-tab-get-group-name (current-buffer))))))
```

This function is very simple switch logic, you can write your own code to group tabs.

##### OrderRules
When switch tabs, if the two tabs are not adjacent before and after the switching action,
AwesomeTab will aggregate the two tabs by ```awesome-tab-adjust-buffer-order-function``` for the next quick switch.

Default functions is ```awesome-tab-adjust-buffer-order``` , you can write your own rule.

```Elisp
(defun awesome-tab-adjust-buffer-order ()
  "Put the two buffers switched to the adjacent position after current buffer changed."
  ;; Just continue when buffer changed.
  (when (and (not (eq (current-buffer) awesome-tab-last-focus-buffer))
             (not (minibufferp)))
    (let* ((current (current-buffer))
           (previous awesome-tab-last-focus-buffer)
           (current-group (first (funcall awesome-tab-buffer-groups-function))))
      ;; Record last focus buffer.
      (setq awesome-tab-last-focus-buffer current)

      ;; Just continue if two buffers are in same group.
      (when (eq current-group awesome-tab-last-focus-buffer-group)
        (let* ((bufset (awesome-tab-get-tabset current-group))
               (current-group-tabs (awesome-tab-tabs bufset))
               (current-group-buffers (mapcar 'car current-group-tabs))
               (current-buffer-index (cl-position current current-group-buffers))
               (previous-buffer-index (cl-position previous current-group-buffers)))

          ;; If the two tabs are not adjacent, swap the positions of the two tabs.
          (when (and current-buffer-index
                     previous-buffer-index
                     (> (abs (- current-buffer-index previous-buffer-index)) 1))
            (let* ((copy-group-tabs (copy-list current-group-tabs))
                   (previous-tab (nth previous-buffer-index copy-group-tabs))
                   (current-tab (nth current-buffer-index copy-group-tabs))
                   (base-group-tabs (awesome-tab-remove-nth-element previous-buffer-index copy-group-tabs))
                   (new-group-tabs
                    (if (> current-buffer-index previous-buffer-index)
                        (awesome-tab-insert-before base-group-tabs current-tab previous-tab)
                      (awesome-tab-insert-after base-group-tabs current-tab previous-tab))))
              (set bufset new-group-tabs)
              (awesome-tab-set-template bufset nil)
              (awesome-tab-display-update)
              ))))

      ;; Update the group name of the last access tab.
      (setq awesome-tab-last-focus-buffer-group current-group)
      )))
```

##### FixedWidth

If you'd like all the tab labels using the same length, such as 14, use:

```Elisp
(setq awesome-tab-label-fixed-length 14)
```
